docs: proofread market CLI guides (#72)
NilFoundation/proof-market-toolchain: gitbook-docs/market/cmd-reference/statement.md

---

> description: Managing circuits and statements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Managing statements
```

Reviewer: we don't manage circuits on the PM

Author: Thanks, fixed

---

# Statement utilities

This page describes scripts for circuit developers and proof producers,
`prepare_statement.py` and `statement_tools.py`.

Make sure you've [signed up](user.md) before continuing.

> ## Preparing circuit as a statement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Building statements from circuits
```

Author: Thanks, fixed

> Circuits are stored as a *statement* structure on the Proof Market.

Reviewer: The structure is something internal. Okay, it's some data structure inside. But to operate it, we don't need to know it.

```suggestion
Circuits are stored in the form of statements on the Proof Market.
```

Author: Thanks, fixed

Statement examples can be found in `./example/statements/` directory.
Attach all additional metadata to circuits generated by the zkLLVM compiler

> before publishing them on the Proof Market.

Reviewer: Looks like this should be in the Examples section

Author: Thanks, moved it

### Usage

To see all parameters that can be passed to the script, run it with the `-h` option:

```console
$ python3 prepare_statement.py -h 

usage: prepare_statement.py [-h] -c CIRCUIT -o output_file_path -n NAME -t \
       statement_type (--private | --public)

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -c CIRCUIT, --circuit CIRCUIT
                        Path to a zkLLVM circuit (*.ll)
  -o output_file_path, --output output_file_path
                        Output file
  -n NAME, --name NAME  Statement name that will be shown on the Proof Market
  -t statement_type, --type statement_type
                        Statement type: placeholder-zkllvm or placeholder-vanilla
  --private             Make a statement private: only accessible by ID
  --public              Make a statement public: visible on the Proof Market
```

Please note that `--private` and `--public` parameters are mutually exclusive:
* With `--private`, the statement will be accessible only by its ID.

>   For experiments and development purposes, make your statements private.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Use private statements for testing circuits in development and making experiments.
```

Reviewer: I know that I wrote the original line, but still :)

Author: Okay)

* With `--public`, the statement will be openly listed on the Proof Market.

### Example

```bash
python3 prepare_statement.py -c arithmetics_example.ll -n arithmetic -t placeholder-zkllvm -o \
arithmetic.json --private
```

> ## Publishing statement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Publishing statements
```

> Statements/circuits can be published to the Proof Market once modified into the required format.

Reviewer: Circuits only appear when we make a statement.

```suggestion
Statements can be published to the Proof Market once modified into the required format.
```

Reviewer: Hmm, let's remove and rewrite it.

Reviewer: like that
```suggestion
To publish a statement on the Proof Market, use `statement_tools.py`.
```

See the [preparing statement](statement.md#preparing-circuit-as-a-statement) section above.

### Usage

> To publish a statement, you'll need to pass its JSON statement description in a file:

Reviewer: no-no, there's no JSON description of a statement. A JSON is the statement itself. The file. But it doesn't matter that it's JSON.

Author: Removed this for now

```console
$ python3 statement_tools.py push -h

usage: statement_tools.py push [-h] --file FILE

options:
  -h, --help   show this help message and exit
  --file FILE  file
```

> You will be returned an object containing a *_key* field — a unique descriptor of the statement.

Reviewer: How exactly will the user receive this object? I don't see it in the console output.

Author: This is a line from our [README](https://github.com/nilfoundation/proof-market-toolchain#2-circuit-generationpublishing-for-circuit-developers). Shall I remove it from here?

Author: I see in your examples the following output:
> Statement from /opt/zkllvm-template/build/template.json was pushed with id 12345678
So the id is returned, only not in object. Shall I refrase it like this then?
```suggestion
If successful, you will be returned an id of the statement.
```

Reviewer: Use the text from template's readme: https://github.com/NilFoundation/zkllvm-template#step-5-publish-the-circuit-statement

Author: Updated
